buildkit/README.md, before:

# BuildKit frontend for Gosh

## Architecture

![architecture](architecture.svg)

## Build buildkit frontend for Gosh

```bash
go mod vendor
docker build -f Dockerfile -t buildkit-gosh .
docker push buildkit-gosh
```

or for custom docker registry:

```bash
go mod vendor
docker build -f Dockerfile -t my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh .
docker push my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh
```

## Build an image from Gosh

1. Setup environment variables with your wallet

```bash
export WALLET=0:...
export WALLET_PUBLIC=...
export WALLET_SECRET=...
```

2. Write dockerfile.yaml (this specification is far from complete, think of it as a proof of concept)

```yaml
# syntax=buildkit-gosh
## or for custom registry
# syntax=my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh

apiVersion: 1
image: bash:latest
steps:
  - name: print date
    run:
      command: ["/usr/local/bin/bash"]
      args:
        - -c
        - >-
          (date +'%s %H:%M:%S %Z'; echo "Hi there") | tee /message.txt
      # here will be gosh mounts (WIP)
```

3. Now build an image

```bash
# run buildkitd containered
docker run -d --name buildkitd --privileged moby/buildkit:latest
# build image
buildctl --addr=docker-container://buildkitd build \
        --frontend gateway.v0 \
        --local dockerfile=. \
        --local context=. \
        --opt source=buildkit-gosh \
        # or --opt source=my-docker-reg:5000/buildkit-gosh \
        --opt filename=dockerfile-for-gosh.yaml \
        # TODO: not implemented yet
        # --opt wallet="$WALLET" \
        # --opt wallet_secret="$WALLET_SECRET" \
        # --opt wallet_public="$WALLET_PUBLIC" \
        --output type=image,name=my-target-super-image,push=true
```

Here we parameterize the image build process with our wallet credentials.

4. Sign the image (WIP: will be part of build image process)

```bash
# add a label WALLET_PUBLIC to the image
echo "FROM my-target-super-image:latest" | docker build --label WALLET_PUBLIC=$WALLET_PUBLIC -t "my-target-super-image-signed" -

export IMAGE_SHA='sha256:111...11'

# build content-signature image
(cd ../content-signnature; docker build -t content-signature .)

# my-target-super-image's sha256

docker run --rm -ti content-signature sign \
    -n <block_chain_net_url e.g. https://gra01.net.everos.dev> \
    -g $WALLET \
    -s $WALLET_SECRET \
    $WALLET_SECRET \  # signer secret can be different
    $IMAGE_SHA
```

Now we have signed the image!

### We can check the image signature with our public key

```bash
docker run --rm -ti content-signature check \
    -n <block_chain_net_url e.g. https://gra01.net.everos.dev> \
    $WALLET_PUBLIC \
    $IMAGE_SHA
```

Commit message:

Buildkit label support (#18)
* add image labels support

* update README

* update README

* bump go.mod versions

buildkit/README.md, after:

# BuildKit frontend for Gosh

## Architecture

![architecture](architecture.svg)

## Build buildkit frontend for Gosh

```bash
go mod vendor
docker build -f Dockerfile -t buildkit-gosh .
docker push buildkit-gosh
```

or for custom docker registry:

```bash
go mod vendor
docker build -f Dockerfile -t my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh .
docker push my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh
```

## Build and sign an image from Gosh

### 1. Setup environment variables with your wallet

```bash
export WALLET=0:...
export WALLET_PUBLIC=...
export WALLET_SECRET=...
```

### 2. Write `dockerfile-for-gosh.yaml` (this specification is far from complete, think of it as a proof of concept)

```yaml
# syntax=buildkit-gosh
## or for custom registry
# syntax=my-reg-url:5000/buildkit-gosh

apiVersion: 1
image: bash:latest
steps:
  - name: print date
    run:
      command: ["/usr/local/bin/bash"]
      args:
        - -c
        - >-
          (date +'%s %H:%M:%S %Z'; echo "Hi there") | tee /message.txt
      # here will be gosh mounts (WIP)
```

### 3. Now build an image

```bash
TARGET_IMAGE="my-target-super-image"

# run buildkitd containered
docker run -d --name buildkitd --privileged moby/buildkit:latest
# build image
buildctl --addr=docker-container://buildkitd build \
        --frontend gateway.v0 \
        --local dockerfile=. \
        --local context=. \
        --opt source=buildkit-gosh \
        # or --opt source=my-docker-reg:5000/buildkit-gosh \
        --opt filename=dockerfile-for-gosh.yaml \
        --opt wallet_public="$WALLET_PUBLIC" \
        --output type=image,name="$TARGET_IMAGE",push=true
```

Here we parameterize the image build process with our wallet credentials.

### 4. Sign the image (WIP: will be part of build image process)

```bash
docker pull $TARGET_IMAGE # buildkit push image directly to the registry and it doesn't persist locally

# my-target-super-image's sha256
TARGET_IMAGE_SHA=`docker inspect --format='{{index (split (index .RepoDigests 0) "@") 1}}' $TARGET_IMAGE`

# build content-signature image
(cd ../content-signnature; docker build -t content-signature .)
# or download prebuild from <to be done>

docker run --rm -ti content-signature sign \
    -n <blockchain_network e.g. https://gra01.net.everos.dev> \
    -g $WALLET \
    -s $WALLET_SECRET \
    $WALLET_SECRET \  # signer secret can be different
    $TARGET_IMAGE_SHA
```

Now we have signed the image!

## We can check the image signature with our public key

```bash
TARGET_IMAGE="my-target-super-image"
# or export IMAGE_NAME="my_repo:5000/library/my-target-super-image:latest@sha256:..."

WALLET_PUBLIC=$(docker inspect --format='{{.Config.Labels.WALLET_PUBLIC}}' $TARGET_IMAGE)

TARGET_IMAGE_SHA=$(docker inspect --format='{{index (split (index .RepoDigests 0) "@") 1}}' $TARGET_IMAGE)

docker run --rm -ti content-signature check \
    -n <blockchain_network e.g. https://gra01.net.everos.dev> \
    $WALLET_PUBLIC \
    $TARGET_IMAGE_SHA
```

**NOTE**:
Anyone who has the image can validate it.
The image has label WALLET_PUBLIC and image's sha256 also publically available.
